---
layout: blog-layout1
title: "Australian Government goes all in on e-invoicing"
date: 2020-09-29 12:40:00 +1000
categories: blog business
series:
comments: true
permalink: /insights/20200929
excerpt-image: /assets/img/blogs/all-in.png
excerpt: "As part of the Budget 2021 early announcements, the Australian government has declared that it is going all in on e-invoicing.  Announcing an e-invoicing mandate that applies to all Commonwealth Government agencies."
tags: 
- Invoice 
- e-invoicing 
- government 
- mandate
---

As e-invoicing specialists, Capability Wise has been closely watching the progress of the joint Australian and New Zealand Government’s Peppol e-invoicing initiative.  The iniative was [originally announced](https://www.pm.gov.au/media/joint-statement-prime-ministers-rt-hon-jacinda-ardern-and-hon-scott-morrison-mp) by the respective Prime Ministers back in February 2019, the initiative is expected to save an estimated $30 billion in reduced transaction costs.

As part of the [Budget 2021 early announcements](https://www.pm.gov.au/media/digital-business-plan-drive-australias-economic-recovery), the Australian government has declared that it is going all in on e-invoicing.  **Today the Prime Minister and Treasurer jointly announced a mandate for all Commonwealth Government agencies to support e-invoicing by 1 July 2022.**

This is a significant move that is intended to bolster Australia’s post-COVID economic recovery.  In the announcement, **the Prime Minister also flagged the intention to consult on madatory adoption of e-invoicing by all Australian businesses**.

So how exactly does e-invoicing assist economic recovery:
- Suppliers to Australian Government Agencies will be able to access favourable payment terms when they e-invoice a government customer.  Enabled Government agencies will pay supplier valid e-invoices on contracts under $1m within 5 business days.
- The Australian e-invoicing network will soon be able to support digital e-invoice response messages.  This will allow business to see the processing status of their e-invoices, saving time and more spent on follow up phone calls and emails.
- E-invoices cost less to process than their paper and PDF equivalents – reducing government operating costs by between $8 and $20 per invoice.

If you are a government agency interested in adopting e-invoicing or a supplier to government, Capability Wise can assist you to take the first steps on your e-invoicing journey.

Contact us today for more information: [einvoicing@capabilitywise.com.au](mailto:einvoicing@capabilitywise.com.au)
